# RGB-D-SLAM
This project is about RGB-D SLAM implementation, including visual odometry, graph-based optimization and loop-closure detection.
## Feature extraction and Image registration
- detectFeatures.cpp  
  
  After building, to see the matching:  
  
  `$ bin/detectFeatures`  
  
  If everything goes well, you should see three separate images show the matching points between two frames, and on command window you should see something like this:  
  
  `Key points of two images: 500, 500`  
  `Find total matches: 500`  
  `min dis = 16.1555`  
  `good matches = 32, inliers: 11`  
  `R=[-0.02344589898474982; 0.03244701276053349; 0.02100067318235926]`  
  `t=[0.02162177236070933; 0.008955936176304868; 0.01067558241919669]` 

## Converting from 2D image to 3D pointcloud
- generatePointCloud.cpp  
  
  After building, to run the executable:  
    
    `$ bin/generate_pointcloud`  
      
  To see 3D point cloud, type the command:  
  
    `$ pcl_viewer pointcloud.pcd`

## Point cloud Combination
- joinPointCloud.cpp  
  
  After building, to run the executable:  
    
    `$ bin/joinPointCloud`  
      
## Visual Odometry  
- visualOdometry.cpp  
  
  To download all data for this, please go to Dr. Gao's website [Dataset for this program](http://yun.baidu.com/s/1i33uvw5) and click Download button   
    
  After building, if everything goes right, you will see a new window pop up and a real-time RGB-D SLAM. Please press R if you only see green, blue and red blocks  
    
    `$ bin/visualOdometry`

## Graph-based Optimization
- slam.cpp  
  
  After building, to run the executable:  
    
    `$ bin/slam`  
      
  It may keep running for a while and on screen you will see how many key frames are there. After all this is done, a complete color map generated by the dataset we use will pop up.  
    
    
# Acknowledgement 
This repository is only for academic study. I would like to especially thank Dr. Xiang Gao, from Tsinghua University, who gave me lots of support for this project.
